# LEED

Based on Points:

Certified: 40-49
Silver: 50-59
Gold: 60-79
Platinum: 80+

# Energy and Atmosphere category

Two items related to Cx

- Fundamental Cx and Verification - A prerequisite that is required.
- Enhanced Cx (3-4 points)

## Fundamental

Pg 321:

The Cx authority must:
- Review the OPR, BOD, and project design.
- Develop and implement a Cx plan.
- Confirm incorporation of Cx requirements into the construction documents.
- Develop construction checklists.
- Develop a system test procedure.
- Verify system test execution.
- Maintain an issues and benefits log throughout the Cx process.
- Prepare a final Cx process report.
- Document all findings and recommendations and report directly to the owner throughout the process

Current Facilities Requirements and Operations and Maintenance Plan

Prepare and maintain a current facilities requirements and operations and maintenance plan that contains the
information necessary to operate the building efficiently. The plan must include the following:
- a sequence of operations for the building;
- the building occupancy schedule;
- equipment run-time schedules;
- setpoints for all HVAC equipment;
- set lighting levels throughout the building;
- minimum outside air requirements;
- any changes in schedules or setpoints for different seasons, days of the week, and times of day;
- a systems narrative describing the mechanical and electrical systems and equipment;
- a preventive maintenance plan for building equipment described in the systems narrative; and
- a commissioning program that includes periodic commissioning requirements, ongoing commissioning tasks, and continuous tasks for critical facilities.

Listed Steps:

1.  Develop Owner's Project Requirements
2.  Develop Basis of Design
3.  Engage Cx Authority
4.  Develop Preliminary Cx Plan
5.  Review OPR, BOD, and Design Documents
6.  Develop Cx Requirements and Incorporate into Construction Documents
7.  Update OPR, BOD, and Cx Plan
8.  Conduct Cx Kickoff Meeting
9.  Develop Cx Checklists
10. Conduct Prefunctional Inspections
11. Develop Functional Test Scripts
12. Execute Functional Testing
13. Document Findings
14. Prepare Cx Report
15. Compile Current Facility Requirements and Operations and Maintenance Plan


### Minimum Energy Performance/Optimize Energy Performance


For v4, compare to 90.1-2010


Modeling requirements (2010) Table G3.1:

1. Design model - Same as proposed design
2. Additions and Alterations - Same as proposed design
3. Space Use Classification - Same as proposed design
4. Schedules - Same as proposed design
5. Building Envelope
  - Orientation:
    The baseline building performance shall be generated by simulating the building with its actual orientation
    and again after rotating the entire building 90, 180, and 270 degrees, and then averaging the results.
  - Opaque assemblies
    Match Tables 5.5-1 through 5.5-8.
  - Vertical Fenestration
    Same as proposed or 40% of area, whichever is smaller.
6. Lighting
  - Same category, max value in 9.2.
7. Thermal Block - HVAC Zones Designed
  - To combine zones must:
    - The space sue classification is the same throughout the thermal block
    - All HVAC zones in the thermal block that are adjacent to glazed exterior walls face the same orientation or their orientations vary by less than 45°
    - All of the zones are served by the same HVAC system or by the same kind of HVAC system.
8. Thermal Blocks - HVAC Zones Not Designed
  - ...
9. Thermal Blocks - Multifamily Residential Buildings
10. HVAC Systems
  - The HVAC systems in the baseline building design shall be of the type and description specified in Section G3.1.1,
    shall meet the  general HVAC system requirements specified in Section G3.1.2,
    and shall meet any system-specific requirements in Section G3.1.3 that are applicable to the baseline HVAC system types



### EnergyPlus Table Output

`EAp2-4/5. Performance Rating Method Compliance`

## Calculator

<https://www.usgbc.org/resources/minimum-energy-performance-calculator-ashrae-901-2010>
<https://www.usgbc.org/resources>

## District Energy Systems

Page 363 (373 PDF). Minimum Energy Performance Section, Project Type Variations.

- Option 1: Whole-Building Energy Simulation
    - Option 1, Path 1: ASHRAE 90.1-2010 Appendix G
        - Model the proposed and baseline designs using purchased energy according to ASHRAE 90.1–2010, Appendix G.
    - Option 1, Path 2: Full DES Performance Accounting
        - Baseline Plant:
            - Model the baseline case with an on-site plant that is compliant with ASHRAE 90.1–2010, Appendix G, baseline requirements for site-generated thermal energy.
            Model the baseline building plant with conventional equipment using performance parameters and efficiencies per ASHRAE 90.1–2010,
            using energy sources corresponding to the DES.
        - Proposed Plant:
            - Model the proposed case with a virtual DES-equivalent plant.
              Model a virtual plant with the same efficiencies as the entire upstream DES heating, cooling, and combined heat and power (CHP) systems,
              including all distribution losses and energy use.
              Equipment efficiencies, distribution losses, and distribution pumping energy may be determined using any of the following methods:
                - Monitored data
                - Engineering analysis
                - Default values
    - Option 1, Path 3: Streamlined DES Modeling
        - Baseline Plant:
            - Calculate the average annual efficiency values for each district energy fuel source used to generate and distribute the thermal energy based on ASHRAE 90.1–2010,
              Appendix G, baseline case requirements.
              These values depend on the ASHRAE 90.1–2010 system type that would be selected for the building if the baseline case
              were modeled with on-site equipment.
              The calculations for baseline cost per district energy source are the same as those for the proposed case model,
              except that the average efficiency is constant.
        - Proposed Plant:
            - Determine a single value for average annual efficiency, including thermal losses and distribution energy,
              for each district fuel energy source used to generate and distribute the thermal energy.

- Option 2: Prescriptive Path, ASHRAE 50% AEDG
- Option 3: Prescriptive Path, Advanced Buildings Core Performance Guide

Upstream Equipment may or may not be included in the scope.


# Points

% Savings | Points
----------|-------
6         | 1
8         | 2
10        | 3
12        | 4
14        | 5
16        | 6
18        | 7
20        | 8
22        | 9
24        | 10
26        | 11
29        | 12
32        | 13
35        | 14
38        | 15
42        | 16
46        | 17
50        | 18

## New

For any projects registered after March 1, 2024.
<https://support.usgbc.org/hc/en-us/articles/24332416264595-Applying-the-LEED-v4-energy-update-to-your-project>.
<https://support.usgbc.org/hc/en-us/articles/28304771684115-LEED-v4-energy-update-basics>.


% Cost Savings | Points
---------------|-------
1              | 20
2              | 25
3              | 30
4              | 35
5              | 40
6              | 45
7              | 50
8              | 55
9              | 60

<https://leeduser.buildinggreen.com/forum/ghg-emissions-calculations-leed-v4-2024-update>
Site energy use multiplied by given factors for CO2e.

Also see <https://portfoliomanager.energystar.gov/pdf/reference/Emissions.pdf> or `EnergyStar Portfolio Manager Emissions Technical Reference` in saved references.

% Site Emissions | Points
-----------------|-------
1                | 20
2                | 25
3                | 30
4                | 35
5                | 42
6                | 50
7                | 60
8                | 70
9                | 85

## v4.1

Energy Cost | Points
------------|-------
5           | 1
10          | 2
15          | 3
20          | 4
25          | 5
30          | 6
35          | 7
40          | 8
45          | 9

Emissions | Points
----------|-------
5         | 1
10        | 2
16        | 3
24        | 4
32        | 5
40        | 6
50        | 7
65        | 8
80        | 9

# References

- Showerhead flow: 2.5 gpm, 2.0 gpm for 'WaterSense' label <https://www.epa.gov/watersense/showerheads>.
- Faucet flow: 2.2 gpm, 1.5 gpm for 'WaterSense' label <https://www.epa.gov/watersense/bathroom-faucets>.

# LEED Links

- <https://www.usgbc.org/resources/leed-minimum-energy-performance-calculator-2024-update-only>
- <https://www.usgbc.org/sites/default/files/2024-07/v4_Minimum_Energy_Performance_Calculator-v07%20%282024%20update%29.xlsm>
- <https://www.usgbc.org/credits/>
- <https://www.usgbc.org/credits/BDC/v4/ea404/2024update?return=/credits/New%20Construction/v4/Energy%20&%20atmosphere>
